The Godfather is a 1972 American crime film directed by Francis Ford Coppola and produced by Albert S. Ruddy, based on Mario Puzo's best-selling novel of the same name. It stars Marlon Brando and Al Pacino as the leaders of a fictional New York crime family. The story, spanning 1945 to 1955, chronicles the family under the patriarch Vito Corleone (Brando), focusing on the transformation of Michael Corleone (Pacino) from reluctant family outsider to ruthless mafia boss.

Paramount Pictures obtained the rights to the novel for the price of $80,000, before it gained popularity.[3][4] Studio executives had trouble finding a director; their first few candidates turned down the position. They and Coppola disagreed over who would play several characters, in particular, Vito and Michael. Filming took place on location, primarily around New York and in Sicily, and was completed ahead of schedule. The musical score was principally composed by Nino Rota, with additional pieces by Carmine Coppola.

The film was the highest-grossing film of 1972[5] and was for a time the highest-grossing film ever made.[4] It won the Oscars for Best Picture, Best Actor (Brando) and Best Adapted Screenplay (for Puzo and Coppola). Its seven other Oscar nominations included Pacino, James Caan, Robert Duvall (Best Supporting Actor), and Coppola for Best Director.

The Godfather is widely regarded as one of the greatest films in world cinema and one of the most influential, especially in the gangster genre.[6] It was selected for preservation in the U.S. National Film Registry of the Library of Congress in 1990, being deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" and is ranked the second-greatest film in American cinema (behind Citizen Kane) by the American Film Institute. It was followed by sequels The Godfather Part II (1974) and The Godfather Part III (1990).

The Corleone Family
Marlon Brando as Vito Corleone patriarch of the family, born Vito Andolini in Sicily
Morgana King as Carmela Corleone, Vito's wife
James Caan as Sonny Corleone, his oldest son and designated heir at the start of the film
John Cazale as Fredo Corleone, his second son
Al Pacino as Michael Corleone, his youngest son, a war hero just returned home who is distanced from the family business
Talia Shire as Connie Corleone, his daughter and youngest child, whose wedding opens the film
Robert Duvall as Tom Hagen, his adopted son, who serves as the family lawyer and consigliere.
Diane Keaton as Kay Adams, Michael's girlfriend and later second wife
Gianni Russo as Carlo Rizzi, Connie's husband
Corleone associates
Richard S. Castellano as Peter Clemenza, caporegime (main lieutenant) of Vito Corleone
Abe Vigoda as Salvatore Tessio, caporegime
Lenny Montana as Luca Brasi, Vito's bodyguard and enforcer
Richard Bright as Al Neri, Michael's bodyguard and enforcer
Johnny Martino as Paulie Gatto, Clemenza's lackey
Al Martino as Johnny Fontane, an actor and singer who is friends with the family and enlists Vito's help in landing a film role
Alex Rocco as Moe Greene, a casino manager from Las Vegas
Simonetta Stefanelli as Apollonia Vitelli-Corleone, Michael's first wife
Corleone rivals
Al Lettieri as Virgil "The Turk" Sollozzo, a drug dealer and associate of the rival Tattaglia family
Sterling Hayden as Captain Mark McCluskey, a corrupt police captain in the pay of the Tattaglia family
John Marley as Jack Woltz, the head of a film studio who refuses to grant a role to Johnny Fontane
Richard Conte as Emilio Barzini, another New York-based crime boss
Victor Rendina as Philip Tattaglia, another New York-based crime boss
Tony Giorgio as Bruno Tattaglia, Philip's son
Corrado Gaipa as Don Tommasino, a Sicilian crime boss
Franco Citti as Calò, one of Tommasino's soldiers
Angelo Infanti as Fabrizio, one of Tommasino's soldiers